Project:PD help/Copying

Note: When you edit this page, you agree to release your contribution under the CC0. See Public Domain Help Pages for more info.


You can obtain copies of the help system in this wiki for local use in your own wiki following these steps:
In a separate browser window, navigate to Special:Export (on this wiki). You will see an open textbox asking you for a list of pages to export.
Copy the list below and paste it into that textbox. This is a generally useful set, making the resulting help structure in your wiki look almost identical to the one here.
Check the following boxes:
"Include only the current revision, not the full history" (Important!)
"Include templates"
"Save as file"

Click the 'Export' button.
Save the file to your desktop or other convenient location you'll remember.
Navigate to Special:Import on your wiki. Note that you must be logged in as an Admin/Sysop (or another user with the import right) to do this.
Browse for the file you saved, and click 'Upload file'.
Navigate to Special:Imagelist (on this wiki).
For each image referenced below, click on the (file) link and save the image to the same location as before.
Navigate to Special:Upload in your wiki and upload each of the images.
You will probably have to edit some of the pages to fix links, but at least this will provide a starting point.
You will also need Extension:ParserFunctions and Extension:Scribunto to allow most of the included templates to work.
Also keep in mind that most default wiki installations do not support SVG images. Information about SVG support can be found in the Manual:Image Administration#SVG page.



File list

Help:Assigning permissions
 Help:Blocking users
 Help:Bots
 Help:Categories
 Help:Contents
 Help:Deleting a page
 Help:Editing
 Help:Editing pages
 Help:External searches
 Help:Formatting
 Help:Images
Help:List
Help:Linked images
 Manual:Linked_images
 Help:Links
 Help:Links/example
 Help:Magic words
 Help:Managing files
 Help:Merge history
 Help:Moving a page
 Help:Namespaces
 Extension:Cite/Cite.php
 Help:Navigation
 Help:New images
 Help:New pages
 Help:Patrolled edits
 Help:Preferences
 Help:Protected pages
 Help:Protecting and unprotecting pages
 Help:Random page
 Help:Range blocks
 Help:Recent changes
 Help:Redirects
 Help:Searching
 Help:Signatures
 Help:Skins
 Help:Special pages
 Help:Starting a new page
 Help:Subpages
 Help:Subpages/subpage
 Help:Subpages/subpage/sub-subpage
 Help:Sysop deleting and undeleting
 Help:Sysops and permissions
 Help:Tables
 Help:Talk pages
 Help:Templates
 Help:Tracking changes
 Help:Transclusion
 Help:Undelete
 Help:User page
 Help:Variables
 Help:Watchlist
 Help:Parser functions in templates
 Template:Meta
 Template:Anchor
 Template:Thankyou
 Module:Template translation
 Category:Help
 File:Arr r.png
 File:Attention niels epting.svg
 File:Bulbgraph.png
 File:Example.jpg
 File:Example-white-bg.jpg
 File:Geographylogo.png
 File:Heckert GNU white.svg
 File:MediaWiki Skin Vector.png
 File:M-en-pagetabs.png
 File:M-en-recentchanges.png
 File:M-en-sidebar.png
 File:M-en-userlinks.png
 File:PD-Help icon.png
 File:PD-icon.svg
 File:Tools.svg
 File:Wiki.png

Currently red links
Move to the above list when these non-orphan help pages get written:
Missing files in distribution
Not including Help namespace pages yet.
File:Button sig.png
File:Example.pdf
File:Transclusion-multiple-foo.png
File:Transclusion-multiple-twit.png
File:Transclusion-simple.png
Template:Fmbox
Template:Help/En pagename
Template:Main other
Template:Purge
Template:Documentation
Template:En pagename ** it seem to break the PD help guidelines**
Template:Categories categories
Template:Help/Categories
Template:Help/Category
Template:Help/If en
Template:Tlx
Automated copying
If you use pywikipediabot, there is a script to automate the copying at User:Sanbeg/mirrorhelp.py, which copies all pages in the help namespace along with templates and images directly referenced by those.
See also
Manual:Page customizations lists wiki pages that MediaWiki messages link to, you may wish to copy mediawiki.org or some other wiki's versions of these pages.
Language:
English  • dansk • Deutsch • español • suomi • français • Bahasa Indonesia • italiano • 日本語 • 한국어 • polski • português • português do Brasil • română • русский • slovenčina
